So that's our app here.
Now in this application we added a lot of functionality but there's one more thing I want to add and
that's pulled to refresh.
Let's say I went to Bill to fetch all the products from inside this page.
So without leaving it and coming back which will fetch the latest products.
But from inside this page by simply using this pull to refresh pattern where you drag down and then
it reloads thankfully that's really easy to do in React Native.
If you're using flat list or a scroll view because it's built into these components here in the products
overview screen on flat list you can implement it by simply adding to props to the flat list to first
prop is on refresh.
You need to at this initial point and a function which is executed when the user pulls down.
So when the user starts this pull to refresh action.
And here in the products overview screen we can of course simply point at load products because that
isn't the end to function it loads our product.
So this is perfect.
So here we can just point ad load products now by adding this we automatically get this functionality
but here we go also get an error that the refreshing prop must be set because that's the other thing
you always have to set when you add on refresh setting on refresh automatically unlocks all this behavior
and all does nice.
Spinner you get by default React Native will do all of that for you but it only does so if you also
at the refreshing prop the refreshing prop is required to let risk native know when you're done.
And this should therefore point at variable at a state full variable so at some state which indicates
where you're currently loading or not.
And of course that's great because we have our is loading prop here.
So that does tell us whether we're loading or not we'll just have one problem.
If we're loading I replaced the entire content of the screen and that's of course not what I want to
do for reloading so we'll fix this in a simple fix could be that we removed a set as loading part here
from load products both setting it to true and to false and instead do that only for the initial load
here in use effect where we trigger a load products when the component loads and then here using this
then syntax set us to fault when once we're done we can do that because load products will return a
promise because it's having this async keyword therefore it returns a promise and with that we get the
loading spinner when this initially loads but not when it reloads.
That also means that when we visit this page we don't see the spinner but that might be fine.
We have some content on there anyways.
And if depth and updates after we was it that this page that might be OK so now we're not setting is
loading here but we can now set a different state here.
Let's name it is refreshing maybe and set is refreshing here.
I want to manage a state which initially is false just like it is loading and that's now what I want
to set here.
So set is refreshing to true here and also here loops here after try catch set it to false.
Once you're done so of course this works in the same way as is loading but now I won't use is refreshing
to replace the entire content of the screen but instead is refreshing can now be fed back into the flat
list on his refreshing prop and the offer on initial load this will exact before but now here we get
this nice Pull to Refresh functionality you see it here I can pull down get that spinner and this will
automatically reload and it can prove this by editing this on his server if I add an extra layer or
a couple of extra exclamation marks there we can get those exclamation marks here by pulling and refreshing
here you see that the same of course on Android they're yours You got that functionality out of the
box and this is how easy you can add Pull to Refresh functionality to your React Native application.